Coaching versus managing in Agile

Both managing and coaching play important roles in project management. the difference in each approach is in 
communication. Management is about giving directionsm while coaching is about teaching. Some situations will call for
coaching, and other will call foiir management. As a project manager,m it is important that you undertand when each 
skill set is necessary for success.

Managing

Project manager's role:
    * tasks with delivering a project objective and problem solving as they arise.
    * keep the team members organized and on track.
    * streamlines communication and give directions
    * this is very indicative of a traditional management approach. at its core, managing requires overseeing the work 
    of others and can include:
        - Onboarding and orienting new employees
        - Conducting meetings
        - Delegating tasks and assignments
        - Monitoring progress and performance against those tasks
        - making high level decisions
    
In Agile project management, however, teams are designed to be self-managing. A self managing team has the autonomy to 
choose how best to accomplish their work, rather that n being directed by others from the top down. Agile team members 
should also feel empowered and equipped to problem-solve on their own.

Even so, there are some cases where the decisive action of a manager is required. examples include if there is an 
emergency that needs immediate attention. If you are behind on a deadline, or if a client has very specific needs and 
you are most familliar with them. in a results-driven with little room for error, someone needs to step on and take the
lead. That is where managung approach comes in.

Coaching
    
Althouogh managing seems inherent to project management, coaching is also an important part of the management role.

Coaching is
    - a two-way commumication style aimed at influencing and developing team member's skills, motivation, and 
    judgement.
    - empowers team members to arrive at solutions on their own by teaching them critical thinking and decision-making 
    skills. This is achieved through offering feedback and providing opportunities for professional development.
    - when challenges arise, coaches will offer guidance, and get out of the way.
    - Coaches don't jup in during times of crisis in a way a manager would. Coaches ask questions to help team members
    arrive at conclusions on their own.
    - coaches trust that their team members can make smart decisions, and trust can go a long way. When the team members
    feel trusted, workplace satisfaction increases, and the quality of work improves.

It is appropriate to use a coachign approach when a team member already has experience working on similar projects and 
is working on growing new competencies or is trying a new approach for the first time. Coachign is about building 
confidence and capabilities so that individuals can continye grow and improve. There are few principles to keep in mind
when coaching:

    * Motivate:
        - Coaches motivate team members to take action. They point out the value in others' work and instill wihtin
        them a sense of pride in what they do.

    * Support: 
        - Coaches are an accessible resource for their team to come to when they experience problems of if they 
        have an idea they want their feedback on.
    
    * Encourage and appreciate:
        - When someone on their team is struggling with a heavy workload, a coach will acknowledge and validate the 
        weight of their efforts and assure them that they are capabile of handling the challenges ahead.

Coaching is appropriate in many circumstances, especially when you need to build up the confidence of an individual or A
team. The most effective leaders strike a health balance between managing and coaching based on the needs of the situation,
individual, and project they are leading. Examples of where coaching would be helpful include when a team member is 
branching out into using new technology or discipline that will turbocharge their career opportunities, when an 
individual's behavior is having unintended consequences on the team dynamics that are not readily visible. or if a team
is recovering from a setback.

Hereâ€™s a scenario where a project manager or Scrum Master should step in to coach a team: Imagine a Scrum team has 
failed to launch a product that meets the customer needs Sprint after Sprint. The Product Owner continues to communicate
to the team that the features are not quite right, and they need to rework the product in the next Sprint or release. 
The team feels deflated, and they are showing signs of burnout because they keep working on the same three features. 
Here is a perfect opportunity to do some coaching with the whole team. Consider bringing them together for a working 
session and cycle through all three principles of coaching:

    1) Motivation: Ask the team to brainstorm positive reasons why the customer is providing this feedback and why it 
    matters to create an excellent end product.  

    2) Support: Work with the team to capture ideas on how to streamline the customer feedback process, such as a design
    Sprint with the customer in attendance.

    3) Encourage and appreciate: Set up an event where the team celebrates the work they have accomplished so far, and 
    make the event fun and inclusive for all team members.

Key takeaways

Managing and coaching are distinct leadership approaches that each yield different results, and both styles require 
effective communication. A managin style typically utilizes one-way communication to assign task and give directives.
Coaching relies on open communication in both directions to help develop an employee's or team's skills, so they can 
become self-sufficient. Some team members and company cultures will naturally favor one style over another, but both are 
necessary leadership skills. As an Agile Project manager or Scrum Master, You will use both styles. That said, in Agile 
and scrum, a coaching style is ussually the best initial optio9n since it will increase the capabilities of the team, 
leading to more agility over time.

When deciding which approach to use, ask youself:

1) what is the desired outcome?
2) what is the skill level of the team member who has encountered a problem?
3) What does the situation need now to reach the desired outcomes?

